So, now we are at the second half of the lecture, the system, it will be doing some problems the leftover from the tutorial spots first.
So.
Yesterday we did the first problem second problem.
You can do this now.
Located the centroid of the cross sectional area will be this is a big cross section. It's the length of the.
So this is a built up being built up, means that when several parts are joined together, the blue or nail, so also any sort of a connection. Okay so, here you can see that they are voltage together.
I'll have to find out the why centroid is simple because see, the Y, axis is symmetrical. I mean, the object is symmetrical about what? Axes? Yeah. If you wanna watch it later, you can just watch it later. I will upload it.
Since the way the X bar is, you.
Because the distinction is symmetrical about both access oh, with this X axis, which we have shown at the bottom. This is not the same for X axis.
So, where does a central x axis that we will know by calculating? The Y, Y bar isn't the vertical direction.
So, we don't know where this is. Maybe it is here. Let's just say.
This is what we have to find out this is the centroid x axis and why is the same as others?
Okay, so now to do that what we have to do is let meet up.
So, what we can do is that we can use a composite data method, so we can divide it.
So, this can be, let's say this area, one and two, they are the same and this is a number three and then this is area number four, right? So.
The formula for the central centroid formula is this one.
It is why bar equal to sum of eight times some of so we will find out why but for each one of them. Okay.
And then simply multiplied by eighty. So, now, for, let's calculate the for this one. Why buy this here? This is.
Changes right and yes, I, then this one also is that three inches? Right? What about this one? This one is here.
So, it is six. The thickness is one. Oh, so it is at five point five inches.
Fixes until the top yeah, it's a six.
It says at the center, right? So the thickness off this is one inch. So that means from the bottom until here, it is five point five.
Basically, whenever you are finding out Central, you are, what is central it is moment off.
Moment of the section, right? So you are a Times why you take a moment of the area. So we are taking moment about excesses.
So, a one this Adrian multiplied by the moment on this area, multi revenue momentum, this multiplied by its momentum and multiply by its moment.
Add all of them together divide by total we'll give you.
The total overall century how much is this distance? Assistance is six plus three. This is nine into six and it is nine.
So, now we will just put it into the formula. You can also construct a table.
It's frozen.
It's fine. So.
So, now you can either construct a table, so to construct a table, you can, you know, basically, this is a question you have to do.
When you have four shapes, right? So you can to the.
So shape, number shape number one, two, three, four, and then the area, what are the areas?
Area of vertical shape is six times one the two vertical and this one is all six times one and this one is also six times one.
So all of them are six, so all of them are basically six, six, six, six, six, and then their wives. So the first two are three and then five point five and then nine. Okay.
And then you just multiply them.
You would multiply so eight times. Go ahead. You, what you need is this and this so you multiply this you multiply those. You multiply this you multiply. So, eighteen, eighteen.
And then you sum this up and you divide so you will get this and then you divided by signoff. That's one way of doing it. The other way is I prefer this way, because I don't mistakes like this.
But anyway, this is the other one. So that you just put it in the equation so area times, this plus this times, this plus this time is okay, so multiply by three showing. Two times.
Six the two is there because they are two vertical chips. Six times. One is an area and three is momentum and then five point five momentum. Six times one area. Nine is the momentum six times. One times.
Some of the areas do I did get five point one to five inches.
The problems that are related to.
A compose a section by central going forward this problem of the composite area how we,
how we can do that.
We can do that. I can divide to like this and then we have a whole circle here.
I can do is that I can zoom it to be solid change.
Oh, you can make it so let's make a change. And here also you make it solid the distance from here and did hear the semi circle one point. And the small is one.
I know this one subtracted.
Well, this is wonderful. Subjective and the bottom is here.
This distance is one same as a white.
Why is this? Why basically.
What you add is what you subtract now, you know, where is this? Where are the centers? So for shape number one yeah. So I, it centroid is here, right?
In this farmer, you have to find out both X and Y.
So, if I, if I look at the distances, how much is this distance? This is one.
And how much is a horizontal distance, which is also right because for a triangle toy, this is, let's say, and this is H, okay.
So, the longer site is to be by three and the shorter side is B, by two, three by three is one.
This is your centroid for trying.
How will you know that when we are taking moments and that we always do it from the reference axis. So, in reality is this, this is going to be measured from here.
Plus one that is full, particularly it is one, because it is being already being measured from X.
This distance is three plus one. What about the second distance? The second one is here. This is easy. This distance is one point five. And what is what? Typical distance what? Tickle is one point.
And the third one now, this is a semi circle for the semi circle.
This distance is for our over three four are over three by.
The Central is here, so this distance, or this is for radius is one.
Divided by three by four or three point that's the central. And it's major directly from the Y axis. And what particularly what does this distance particularly is one point five.
Now, you can either construct a table again. Oh, sorry. And for this, so, for this horizontally, the distance is zero, right? It is zero.
And particularly the distance is one point five.
And this is minus of Asia.
The other thing I wanna mention is the science all the distances,
the vertical in this direction above X axis there positive horizontally this,
for our three by negative because the shape lies towards the negative side.
That's the only negative here. The area's negative export is zero by by response to one point. Okay, so go ahead.
Right. Same thing is done what I've done here and simply then you put it in this formula and you put it in this formula. Okay.
So a one by one minus for a semi circle minus forever three by area its squared by the square by to.
A square by two, semi circle. Sorry? Not. It's if you have a diameter, it's by default.
And then you have this, this is one point, five, three times three for the rectangle and basically this is for your triangle and this zero times that's the or a negative.
Buyer square by the square by four.
Sorry, what am I saying area.
Will do by our square right? And is equal to D by to.
So, ID square by four by four by four is the moment of.
So, okay, so, and downwards we have, this is for, you know, the third so the shape, the semi circle, and then you have the rectangle and the triangle and then the minus of the area.
So, this deal is there, because the expert is, you know, for for this sucker for this sucker, the X bar is.
Now, coming to us, why bother? Okay coming to us? Why bother again? The same thing for the semi circle.
Then this is for the square and this is for the triangle and this is the negative negative area. Which positive why? Because why is above all devise?
Are in this example above the XX and this is some of the idea. So you get your central.
These are the two problems we did the semi circle.
He also did this problem I think last did this from he did this.
So this now,
we have to do,
in the moment,
I'll finish up the composite area of the centroid and Y,
axis they're asking this is the s*** they're asking that find out the want me to finish about the Y axis is shape is symmetrical about the Y.
axis no need to find out the Central is basically.
To find a moment of so, if you look at, where does the central access for each central access for the ship is here.
So, yeah, access different why is the same? So no need to transfer using out of access to them because we have final moment of inertia about the Y, axis.
Similarly, for this s***, now, how can we do that for composite area while we can apply the same logic? So, what we can do is that we can fill up this area.
So, let's fill up so you can fill up this area, right?
Then you have one chip and the second big rectangle chip and then the shape is will be. It's moment to finish. I will be subtracted. This is how we can do this. Okay.
So, for the triangle moment, inertia about the Y, axis, and then for this one, and then minus for this one. Okay.
So the only problem is, for me to finish off the time, do we know a moment of Triangle? Well, if we have a triangle, any shape.
These are it's editorial access, so want me to finish up for the triangle is by thirty six.
What what about a triangle that is like symmetrical? Why? So this triangle is different from the sort of trying.
Because here, the total axes are it'd be by three by three Y, axis about X axis. Yes, it's fine. It's be a two by thirty six. What about Y axis? It is different.
So, although it looks like there's no need to transfer, but we do need to do that. Okay. So what we're going to do, we are going to divide this triangle into two parts.
So, like, this, we divide this triangle into two parts. Now, we can apply the attribute by thirty six. I will repeat this again.
See, two by thirty six I'm going to finish trying.
This is applicable for these, these sort of triangles where the access and passing through out here.
Like this yeah, what you have your Senatorial access for this big triangle is here.
This is a different triangle what we can do it, we can divide into two parts when we divide into two parts, then it's simple then the centroid is here and yeah, it just beat you by thirty six or two by thirty six. Okay.
So, whether it's six Y axis, it should be six. Then it is very simple. We can we can do that. Because now this matches with the situation, this triangle, this triangle has centered and why access here.
So, the moment the financial is not by thirty six accesses is okay access speech you by thirty six because this is white. Do you understand this point that I'm trying to me?
So now, however, once we do that, if we say that we do why we want to divide into two parts. Now, what happens is look at where the Y, axis is this is the same Y, axis.
Where is the Y, axis for your triangles now? Well, they are here, it's here in here that means now for this situation, because you change something, so you need to transfer by this amount. So, how much is this amount?
Well, let's look at the. It is hundred and fifty. So, this distance in red that I have pointed out, it is hundred and fifty divided by.
Hundred and fifty divided by three.
Yeah, so yeah, no, it is fish teeth.
It's fifty, not one hundred, fifty millimeters, fifty millimeters, fifty millimeters on board.
Yes, but yeah, these are two different shapes. So fifty.
For one trying not for books.
I mean, you have to see them separately. Okay you can, of course, make the calculation and then multiply it by two.
But I wouldn't say that this distance is one hundred. This distance is the distance that I pointed out is fifty, but fifteen on both sides. Yeah. Alright.
So, what about this trying or do we need to transfer for this triangle? No. So, Y, axis is here for the sheet and it matches with the overall Y axis also. So no need to transfer. Okay. So this is going to be by twelve.
I would there is us, there is a rectangle inside that we need to subtract by by twelve, four, this triangle that we added to make the whole chips solid.
Now we need to subtract. So, this one is the Y, axis this by access for the shape is the same as over on the axis. So, no, need spiral axis data. Next is that we just put everything in the equation.
So, this is the equation moment of about the central axis.
Plus, a, the X squared the transfer distance so we have two small triangles, each BQ by three, six. So let me show you if you have a triangle.
So here is X axis is Y axis. This is and this is H, so about X axis. It is phq by thirty six.
About why access it is by six.
So, hbq by thirty six and you multiply by two because you have to triangles.
This area off base to hide, and this is a fifty distance, right? So fifty times will see if you now put two hundred here, it will be wrong.
If this is going to be wrong, so fifty Square.
And then overall you can multiply it by.
Calculation will be multiplied by two. All right.
Going further, you have another shape here bigger ten. So the bigger tangle is by twelve. Oh, sorry. hbq by twelve. Because moment of finish about is about the Y, axis each VQ by twelve.
To see the zero distances, because this overlaps with the overall by access, minus in a small rectangle woman to finish. It has to be subtracted.
So minus minus or you can write this plus this plus. But what this says negative.
So again, hbq by twelve and again, the transfer distance is zero. So, basically, this Tom, as you, we'll need to parallax. No, need for phylaxis, applying this.
You get the moment of an issue about Y, axis, which is nine one four into ten is six millimeters raised to the power.
Well, that's the problem. And here you have to find out a moment. The next part is the same problem.
Now you have to find a moment to finish it about the X axis to do that. Well, we don't we don't know where the central x axis. This is not the central access. This is just the reference access.
Shape is symmetrical about why? So, the reference why in the central order, why are the same for each? But about X axis now? What's the what's the problem? What? The triangle it's central axis here.
What is in this case, you don't need to divide the triangle is the X axis is passing through by three. Okay. So this triangle, whether you have this triangle or this triangle.
Omit the financial by thirty six. Previously the problem was that we were talking about Y, axis Y, axis for this triangle is at some distance access for this triangle was right in the middle.
It was not actually, it was not it was different, so that's why we divided into to watch for now.
In this case, a VINO moment of of this triangle about this axis, that is be.
Hq by thirty six. Okay. And where is this sent toward? How much is this distance? This is two hundred and forty.
Divide it by three what about the big rectangle? So we can assume this to be like, a solid it and do the same thing negative in other one negative the ownership. Okay.
So for the bigger one, it's X. axis is the highest, four hundred and fifty. So, what is four hundred and fifty divided by two to twenty five?
So, it's x axis is here.
It's x axis here. Alright.
And, and clearly is not going to be the same. The other one is also the same for the inner triangle, the X axis because, you know, they are overlapping. So, it's the same thing for the bigger and the small.
A, this distance the inside distance. This is hi.
So, it's how much one hundred and seventy five hundred and seventy five.
Two twenty five minus fifty it's hundred, so.
Question is, where is the overall central order axis so that if that is here, that's just as human is here then we need to transfer all the moment of inertia or the triangle.
We need to transfer it through this distance. This distance.
For the view is for the bigger rectangle, we need to transfer it through this distance and for the small rectangle again, we need to transfer to the same distance. This one.
Okay, so we need to do these transfers the first step Howard, and this is to locate X Dash, which will locate X dash. We can do that by the composite that we, you've just done previously.
Yeah, so this is, you can find out where the why virus. Okay, so this is all the areas. So this is eighty of the triangle.
Off base into height into five thirty. So what is five thirty? We are measuring the.
We're finding out the whiteboard from the base. Okay. Sorry I know this is annoying.
So this is our base, so we will take this distance. That is five hundred and thirty is five thirty.
So so we are taking because we are taking moment about this. Xx, is this one so whatever viable? We will find out that will also be from the same access. Okay it is not going to be from the top.
You have the choice to take moments about the talk maybe but then fireball will be from the top. This will be five.
So whatever access about which you are taking your distances or your moment same access is the one from which you will measure your central.
Well, yeah, we we find out by bar. Okay.
And then the area for the bigger rectangle and then it's momenta and then the smaller one which we added it is actually, and then it's moment divided by all the areas. So why?
But turns out to be three hundred to thirty three point seven.
My go back here this distance I bought is three, three, three point seven one. So now, you know, that this is three, three, three point seven one, minus two to five.
You get this distance. Okay right and we know that this distance from here until here. It is five hundred and twenty, right?
Five hundred and thirty minus triple three point. Seven one that will give you this distance battle access distance. Okay.
So then now, we know the overall location of the X dash axis, the overall central axis, you know, the distances.
So, we can, if we know that moment of inertia is the issue by thirty six for this triangle about it central access, we can transfer it to this axis.
Because now we, you know, X, a, this distance in a direction. You can call it. Why.
So, putting it in this equation, what does this equation.
Moment of about its access plus area into the transfer distance. So pH Q. by thirty six plus area.
Half be sorry vh by two half. Bh into this is a transfer distance between the two access. Yeah, one ninety six point. Two, nine, whereas one ninety six point.
Well, it says here okay. All these distances.
So, the overarching portal access is found to be.
This is the centroid for the triangle, this distances one ninety six point two nine for these for the two rectangles. So this is a central access.
So, this distance is hundred and eight point seven, both for the bigger and for this small, because, you know, they are together. They are overlap.
Yeah, you go back and you this so area and two hundred and eight point seven one for the trying.
And then here for the a rectangle by twelve into area was negative we just added it. Okay. And all this term either.
You you can basically you can take this positive, but then this plus sign, it should be.
You have to subtract this moment of pleasure so times the transfer distance Square. This is basically your answer.
So, you finished early, do you want to do you have some questions you want to repeat something?
Yes, so you need to practice on this, please the problems at least at least the problems that we are in the tutorials for the exams. This is minimum, please solve every problem or the exam.
Otherwise it will be there would be a problem.
I know that things are hard for you. I'm not sure.
You know, changes and everything, but at least I assure you, if you do the problems that we have done in the tutorial.
We'll be able to solve your example at least this is necessary.
Ideally, you should go back to the book and so more examples there. So exercise problems. So please do your best and hope for the best. Okay.
So, thank you so much. I think this is enough for today. I'm also my throat is going. I'm dying, so I'll see you next week.
Next week you're going to have your last question on the sent word and moment of inertia topic.
And we will finish the potential energy chapter also. Okay. And then on the last day, hopefully, we will have a I mean, that will be left. So, on the last day, then I, I will go through some trust problems, method of going to method sections again.
Right Thank you so much.